Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.A programming language is a computer language programmers use to develop software programs,
 scripts, or other sets of instructions for computers to execute.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.JDK. It consists of a number of software components,One is JRE and other tools like java
 and javac – that combinedly called a development tool,JRE is having JVM and other library files.
some of used JDK Components :
JRE: Java Runtime Environment
java: It’s simply a loader that works for all the java applications. Also,
 this particular tool interprets the class file generated by javac,
 The single java launcher is used for the purpose of development and deployment,
  Gone are the days when JRE was used as the deployment launcher.
  Nowadays, JRE doesn’t exist with the Sun JDK and totally replaced by this new java loader.
javac: It’s a compiler. And, basically, it converts source code into Java bytecode
JVM:Java Virtual Machine.



What is IDE?
A.Java IDE (Integrated Development Environment) is a software application that provides feasibility to
  users in writing and debugging programs.



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.-Eclipse
  -Netbeans
  -BlueJ
  -JDeveloper
  -IntelliJ IDEA
  -JCreator
  -DrJava



Explain the entire java life cycle.
what is class?
  a class is a basic building block. It can be defined as template that describes the data
  and behaviour associated with the class instantiation. Instantiating is a class is to create
  an object (variable) of that class that can be used to access the member variables and methods of the class.
What is object?
  object in Java is An entity that has state and behavior is known as an object.
What is the entry point of an application?
  An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access point to an application.
Why main is static?
 because This is just a convention, because keyword static allows main to be called without creating an object of the class in which
 the main method is defined.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
 The Object class.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
 The ClassPath is a parameter in the Java Virtual Machine(JVM) or the Java compiler
 that is used by a system or application ClassLoader to locate and load compiled Java
 bytecodes stored in the “.class” file. On the other hand, The Path is also an environment
 variable path that behaves as a mediator between the operating system and developer to
 inform binary file path.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
 1-An abstract class can contain both abstract and non-abstract methods,in the other hand The Interface contains only abstract methods.
 2-An abstract class can have all four; static, non-static and final, non-final variables,in the other hand The Interface Only final and static variables are used.
 3-An abstract class To declare abstract class abstract keywords are used,in the other hand The Interface can be declared with the interface keyword.
 4-An abstract class supports multiple inheritance,in the other hand The Interface does not support multiple inheritance.
 5-An abstract class The keyword ‘extend’ is used to extend an abstract class,in the other hand The Interface The keyword implement is used to implement the interface.
 6-An abstract class has class members like private and protected, etc. , in the other hand The Interface has class members public by default.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
 No,The short answer: An abstract class allows you to create functionality that subclasses can implement or override. An interface only allows you to define functionality,
 not implement it. And whereas a class can extend only one abstract class, it can take advantage of multiple interfaces.
what is Access Specifier?
 An access specifier is a defining code element that can determine which elements of a program are allowed to access a specific variable or other piece of data.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
 Object-Oriented Programming (or OOP) is a paradigm of programming in which programs are written and structured around objects rather than functions or logic.
 Object-Oriented Programming (or OOP) is a paradigm of programming in which programs are written and structured around objects rather than functions or logic.
 Object procedures can access and modify data in an object.
java oops types features :
 1-Abstraction: Using simple things to represent complexity. We all know how to turn the TV on, but we don’t need to know how it works in order to enjoy it.
  In Java, abstraction means simple things like objects, classes and variables represent more complex underlying code and data. This is important because
  it lets you avoid repeating the same work multiple times.
 2-Encapsulation: The practice of keeping fields within a class private, then providing access to those fields via public methods. Encapsulation is a protective barrier
  that keeps the data and code safe within the class itself. We can then reuse objects like code components or variables without allowing open access to the data system-wide.
 3-Inheritance: A special feature of Object-Oriented Programming in Java, Inheritance lets programmers create new classes that share some of the attributes of existing
  classes. Using Inheritance lets us build on previous work without reinventing the wheel.
 4-Polymorphism. Allows programmers to use the same word in Java to mean different things in different contexts. One form of polymorphism is method overloading.
  That’s when the code itself implies different meanings. The other form is method overriding. That’s when the values of the supplied variables imply different
  meanings. Let’s delve a little further.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
 A java package is a group of similar types of classes, interfaces and sub-packages, and The java.lang package is always imported by default in java.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
 An application-programming interface (API) is a set of programming instructions and standards for accessing a Web-based software application or Web tool.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
 Java doesn’t allow multiple inheritance to avoid the ambiguity caused by it, This means that a class cannot extend more than one class.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
 Method Overloading is the common way of implementing polymorphism. It is the ability to redefine a function in more than one form.
 and Method Overloading is applied in a program when objects are required to perform similar tasks but different input parameters. Every time an object calls a method,
 Java matches up to the method name first and then the number and type of parameters to decide what definitions to execute.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
 Exception is an abnormal condition. In Java, an exception is an event that disrupts the normal flow of the program. It is an object which is thrown at runtime.
 The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions. Put the code you want to run in the try block, and any Java exceptions that the code throws are caught
 by one or more catch blocks.This method will catch any type of Java exceptions that get thrown. This is the simplest mechanism for handling exceptions.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
 The static keyword in Java is mainly used for memory management. The static keyword in Java is used to share the same variable or method of a given class.
 The users can apply static keywords with variables, methods, blocks, and nested classes. The static keyword belongs to the class than an instance of the class.
 The static keyword is used for a constant variable or a method that is the same for every instance of a class.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
 final is a reserved keyword in java.In Java, the final keyword is used as defining something as constant /final and represents the non-access modifier.
  final variable:
  When a variable is declared as final in Java, the value can’t be modified once it has been assigned.
  If any value has not been assigned to that variable, then it can be assigned only by the constructor of the class.
  final method:
  A method declared as final cannot be overridden by its children's classes.
  A constructor cannot be marked as final because whenever a class is inherited, the constructors are not inherited.
  Hence, marking it final doesn't make sense. Java throws compilation error saying - modifier final not allowed here
What is final, finally and finalize?
 The final, finally, and finalize are keywords in Java that are used in exception handling. Each of these keywords has a different functionality. The basic difference between final,
  finally and finalize is that the final is an access modifier, finally is the block in Exception Handling and finalize is the method of object class.
What is a constructor ?
 A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects. The constructor is called when an object of a class is created.
 It can be used to set initial values for object attributes.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
 yes
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
 default constructor.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
 The this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
 The super keyword in java is a reference variable.possible way to Uses of Super keyword in Java:
 1. The super keyword can be used to refer immediate parent class objects.
 2. The super keyword can be used to invoke the immediate parent class method.
 3. The super keyword can be used to invoke the immediate parent class constructor.
What is JVM stand for ?
 Java Virtual Machine.
Is JVM platform independent?
 yes
What version of java are you using?
 Java SE 11
What is JAR stand for ?
 Java archive
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
 JDK is platform dependent i.e for different platforms in the other hand JVM is platform independent.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
 The main difference between JVM and JRE is that JVM includes or can access any of the major Java libraries, whereas, JRE package, on the other hand, cannot include or access
 any of the major Java libraries. A JVM is an acronym for Java Virtual Machine, whereas JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.
What is compile time and run time?
 Compile-time and Runtime are the two programming terms used in the software development. Compile-time is the time at which the source code is converted into an executable code
 while the run time is the time at which the executable code is started running.
What is heap?
 A heap is a special data structure in Java. A heap is a tree-based data structure and can be classified as a complete binary tree. All the nodes of the heap are arranged in a specific order.
How java manage it's memory?
 In Java, memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects, called Memory management. Java does memory management automatically.
 Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
 Java provides three classes to represent a sequence of characters: String, StringBuffer, and StringBuilder. The String class is an immutable class
 whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder classes are mutable.
What is Singleton class?
 A singleton class in Java is the one which can have only one object
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
 Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate
 the actual Java object in memory. So, the object serialized on one platform can be deserialized on a different platform.
when to use transient variable in java?
 if we don’t want to save value of a particular variable in a file, then we use transient keyword.
Difference between while and do..while loop?
 1-While the loop is an entry control loop because firstly, the condition is checked, then the loop's body is executed, but on the other hand The do-while loop
  is an exit control loop because in this, first of all, the body of the loop is executed then the condition is checked true or false.
 2-The statement of while loop may not be executed at all,on the other hand The statement of the do-while loop must be executed at least once.
 3-The while loop terminates when the condition becomes false, on the other hand As long as the condition is true, the compiler keeps executing the loop in the do-while loop.
 4-In a while loop, the test condition variable must be initialized first to check the test condition in the loop, on the other hand In a do-while loop,
  the variable of test condition Initialized in the loop also.
 5-In a while loop, at the end of the condition, there is no semicolon, but on  The do-while loop at the end of the condition, there is a semicolon.
 6-While loop is not used for creating menu-driven programs,but The do-while loop is mostly used for creating menu-driven programs because at least one time;
  the loop is executed whether the condition is true or false.
 7-In a while loop, the number of executions depends on the condition defined in the while block, but In a do-while loop, irrespective of the condition mentioned, a minimum of 1 execution occurs.
What is Enum?
 An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants (unchangeable variables, like final variables).
What is Iterator?
  An iterator is an object that traverses a container, particularly lists.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
  An Integer object will take more memory an Integer is the an object and it store meta data overhead about the object and int is primitive type so its takes less space. +1
Why is String Immutable in Java?
 The String is immutable in Java because of the security, synchronization and concurrency, caching, and class loading. The reason of making string final is to destroy
 the immutability and to not allow others to extend it.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
 in Java, constructor chaining is a sequence of invoking constructors upon initializing an object.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?

What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?

